---
title: Intro blog of GSoC 2024 - Kdenlive
categories: Development
tags:
    - KDE
    - GSoC
    - Kdenlive
date: 2024-05-27 14:04:00 +0800
---

Hello everyone in KDE community!

My name is Chengkun Chen. This year I'll be responsible for improving subtitle support in Kdenlive and I'm excited to work with all of you. :)

### About Project

The subtitle support in Kdenlive is limited due to its current storage method: subtitles are stored in [SRT format](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SubRip) files, which are human-readable but lack flexibility. The [ASS format](http://www.tcax.org/docs/ass-specs.htm) is a better choice to enhance Kdenlive's creative capabilities. This project will focus on migrating Kdenlive from a subtitle storage system centered around the SRT format to one centered around the ASS format. **The expected result is more diverse and rich subtitle effects, such as karaoke, along with a more powerful subtitle editor.**

### About me
I am a second-year undergraduate student in China, majoring Software Enginneering. My goal is to write code that people around the world can freely use, making life more convenient. Additionally, I am a producer and video creator, and I have been using Kdenlive for about two to three years. This is my first time paticipating in an open-source project and I feel very fortunate to have been selected. I'm looking forward to gaining new experiences from improving Kdenlive with the great Kdenlive team. 

Thanks for your reading. Stay tuned for updates on my progress via [my blog](https://seri037.github.io/blog/) and feel free to connect with me.